Release process document (#13)
l3af-project/l3af-arch: RELEASES.md

# Release Process

This section describes the release processes for tracking, preparing, and creating new L3AF releases. This includes information around the release cycles and guides for developers responsible for preparing upcoming stable releases.

## Active Development

Active development is happening on the `main` branch, and a new version can be released from it every 10-12 weeks.

## Release Tracking

Feature work for upcoming releases is tracked through [GitHub Projects](https://github.com/l3af-project/l3af-arch/projects?type=beta).

> ## Release Versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Release Versioning
```

We will follow [Semantic Versioning 2.0](https://semver.org/).

### Post Release Activities

After each release, a tag with name ‘X.Y.Z’, and a branch with name ‘X.Y.Z’ is created from the main branch.
Merge permission to this branch will be given to the release manager and CI will be configured to execute tests on it.

## Stable Releases

Stable releases of L3AF include:

* Maintenance window (any version released in the last 6 to 12 months).
* Stability fixes backported from the `main` branch (anything that can result in a crash).
* Bugfixes, deemed worthwhile by the maintainers of stable releases.

### Backports

The process of backporting can consist of the following steps:

- Changes nominated by the change author and/or members of the L3AF community are evaluated for backporting on a case-by-case basis

> - These changes require approval from the release manager of stable release and the code owners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- These changes require approval from both the release manager of the stable release and from the relevant code owners.
```

Reviewer: Updated wording to clarify what I think you mean.  If I got it wrong, please fix instead of accepting my suggestion :)

> - Once approved, these fixes can be backported from the `main` branch to an existing or previous stable branch by the code owners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once approved, these fixes can be backported from the `main` branch to an existing or previous stable branch by the branch's release manager.
```
This line contradicted line 40.   Suggest changing text here to match line 40.  Alternatively, leave the text as is here and change the wording about merging backports in line 40.

# Release Process

This section describes the release processes for tracking, preparing, and creating new L3AF releases. This includes information around the release cycles and guides for developers responsible for preparing upcoming stable releases.

## Active development

> Active development is happening on the `main` branch, and a new version can be released from it in every 10-12 weeks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Active development is happening on the `main` branch, and a new version can be released from it every 10-12 weeks.
```

## Release Tracking

> Feature work for upcoming releases is tracked through GitHub Projects.

Reviewer: By "GitHub Projects" do you mean https://github.com/l3af-project/l3af-arch/projects?type=beta which currently shows 0 entries?  Or something else?  Can you make "GitHub Projects" be a link?

## Release Versions

We would be having a release version for every release. Minor releases are typically designated by incrementing 
the Y in the version format X.Y.Z. New patch releases for an existing stable version X.Y.Z are published by incrementing

> the Z in the version format.

Reviewer: I'd recommend saying it will follow [Semantic Versioning 2.0](https://semver.org/)

> ## Stable releases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Stable Releases
```
consistency with other subsection titles

Stable releases of L3AF include:

> * Extended maintenance window (any version released in the last 6/12 months).

Reviewer: What is meant by "6/12"?   "6 to 12"?   "6"?   Undecided?
And what does "Extended maintenance window" really mean?  Just the bullets in 24-25?   If so maybe move this to a sentence above the bullet list instead of a bullet.

> Stable releases of L3AF include:
> 
> * Extended maintenance window (any version released in the last 6/12 months).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stable releases will be maintained for a period of 6 to 12 months, where the period included:

```

* Stability fixes backported from the `main` branch (anything that can result in a crash).

> * Bugfixes, deemed worthwhile by the maintainers of stable releases.

Reviewer: Do "stable releases" have different maintainers from the rest of the project?

Author: @dthaler here maintainers are same as code owners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Bugfixes, deemed worthwhile by the maintainers.
```

> ### Post Release Activities

Reviewer: Recommend moving this section up before the "Stable releases" section, since line 24 implies a different branch but that's not mentioned until line 29 so is hard to follow out of order.

> After each release, a tag with name ‘vX.Y.Z’, and a branch with name ‘release/vX.Y.Z’ can be created from the main branch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After each release, a tag with name ‘vX.Y.Z’, and a branch with name ‘release/vX.Y.Z’ is created from the main branch. 
```
suggest making this mandatory, not optional

> Merge permission to this branch would be given to the release manager and CI can be configured to execute tests on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merge permission to this branch will be given to the release manager and CI will be configured to execute tests on it.
```
Also, suggestion to document the personnel, i.e., who is the release manager.  And then link "release manager" above to that future page/section.  For now maybe link it to the "Release management" section at the bottom of this doc?

### Backports

All other reliability fixes can be nominated for backporting to stable releases by L3AF code owners. 
The process of backporting can consist of the following steps:

> - Changes nominated by the change author and/or members of the L3AF community are evaluated for backporting on a case-by-case basis

Reviewer: Line 34 says "nominated" is done by code owners.  Here "nominated" can be done by members of the L3AF community, which is a different group, and "approval" is done by code owners or the release manager.   Fix the inconsistency.  My recommendation is just delete line 34.

> - These changes require approval from either the release manager of stable release or code owners.

Reviewer: By "code owners" does that mean the collective set of code owners can by majority or unanimity override what the release manager wants?  And similarly the release manager can override what the code owners want?   Clarify.

- Once approved, these fixes can be backported from the `main` branch to an existing or previous stable branch by the code owners.

> ### Release management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Release Management
```
consistency with other subsection titles
